About a quarter of the world's population suffers from micronutrient deficiencies. That reinforces the view that not only hunger but also malnutrition needs to be assessed in nutritional science. Crop Diversity is considered to have a positive effect on different food security dimensions. As one of the four dimensions, food availability (i.e. supply), is mainly made up by production and trade. Diversification respectively specialisation strategies are shown to effect both- production and trade.Here I show, by including trade and production on national scale how crop diversity influences the supply of nutrients. A new approach based on three analysis steps combines current scientific concepts. (1) First, three contrasting diversity metrics of crops produced within a country are calculated: richness, inverse Simpson index and asynchrony. (2) Second, to assess how many of the national required nutrients can be achieved through the national supply of nutrients, FAO balance sheets are combined with the USDA food composition database. (3)  Third, I use linear and linear mixed effect models to quantify the link between the resulting fulfilled nutritional supply and crop diversity.By assessing 57 countries worldwide in five decades (1961-2010), I found that the status in terms of nationally achieved nutrient requirements increased for all regions except Sub-Saharan Africa. I find that crop diversity does not contribute markedly to achieve a better nutrient supply for respective populations. I argue that this does not exclude it's relevance to other food security dimensions and suggest further analysis, for which the present analysis can be seen as model approach. 

